1
相手のない喧嘩はできない (aite no nai kenka wa dekinai)
English Translation: “You can’t fight without an opponent.”

This Japanese saying means that you cannot have an argument or fight without someone to argue or fight with. It is used to describe a situation where two people are not fighting and are often used to warn someone about doing something reckless. A lot of Japanese people avoid conflicts, so this Japanese saying is often used to prevent arguments from happening.


2
七転び八起き (nana korobi ya oki)
English Translation: “When you fall seven times, you get up at eight.”

There may come a time when you feel like giving up on your studies or on a project that you are working on. This is the Japanese equivalent of “Don’t give up, don’t give in.” This Japanese saying is often recited to children to encourage them never to give up and always try their best. It encourages people to keep going, even when the going gets tough.


3
井の中の蛙大海を知らず (I no naka no kawazu taikai wo shirazu)
English Translation: “A frog in the well does not know the ocean.”

This Japanese proverb means you should not look at situations from their face value. Go beyond that and widen your imagination. If you use a narrow-minded approach, you will not experience the world beyond your cocoon. It applies to people who do not want to focus on other opportunities and venture out to the unknown.


4
言わぬが花 (Iwanu Ga Hana)
English Translation: “Silence is golden.”

You don’t always have to talk or give your opinions. Maintain your silence when you have nothing significant to contribute. Being too mouthy could lead you into trouble.


5
能ある鷹は爪を隠す (Nou aru taka wa tsume wo kakusu)
English Translation: “The adept hawk hides its claws.”

To make you understand the expression in simple language, it means a hawk that wants to pounce does not display its prowess to the targeted prey. It will wait for the right moment to make a move. The Japanese use the expression to remind them of the importance of remaining humble.


6
猿 も 木 から 落ちる (Saru mo ki kara ochiru)
English Translation: “Even monkeys fall from trees.”

Monkeys are known for their deft excellence in climbing trees. They can climb even the tallest of trees, no matter how daunting it might look. They find comfort in jumping from one tree to another since they are their natural habitats. However, even a monkey makes mistakes. Even monkeys fall from trees but that’s a normal occurrence. 


7
二兎 を 追う 者 は 一 兎 を も 得 ず (Nito o oumono wa itto o mo ezu)
English Translation: “He who runs after two hares will catch neither.”

This expression is used to warn people who are greedy or want to focus on too many things simultaneously. It is often difficult to achieve success if you are not focused on what you are trying to do. The Japanese people often use the saying to tell their children that they should only concentrate on one activity and not try to do too many things simultaneously. This will lead to failure in all of them.


8
悪銭身に付かず (Akusen mi ni tsukazu)
English Translation: “Easy come, easy go.”

The Japanese are honest and like transacting in the right way. They avoid shoddy deals. If you don’t be careful, you might end up losing everything that you have earned. The Japanese proverb means that it is easy to make money, but it is also easy to lose it.


9
負けるが勝ち (makeru ga kachi)
English Translation: “There is victory in losing.”

This may sound quite paradoxical for a migrant or someone who does not understand Japanese. However, it simply means you do not have to win every battle. Walking away from a fight is smart and a wise decision. If you argue with your friends over something foolish, throw in the idiom and forget about the argument.


10
自業自得 (Jigou jitoku)
English Translation: “What goes around comes around.”

Relating to people in the right manner is an essential component of peaceful coexistence. Treat people in the same manner you would wish them to treat you. You wouldn’t want to be disrespected, so do not disrespect others. The Japanese use this proverb to teach their children the importance of good deeds.
